[MUSIC]
This lecture we'll talk about
components in embedded systems,
the hardware components.
Specifically we're gonna
talk about microcontrollers.
We'll start talking
about microcontrollers.
We'll go on in the next
lecture about that, too.
The microcontroller is the center of
the action, so we're good to start there.
That's where we'll be mostly focusing
this class really working with
the microcontroller.
So here's a picture of a board,
an Arduino.
There's different versions
of Arduino boards.
You have one or you may have one.
This one, this particular board,
you can see there's a big chip in there,
that black chip over there.
And, like the bottom part of the board and
that's actually
the microcontroller itself.
And there are other devices on this board,
but the microcontroller is that main chip
in there that's going to be executing
the programs that we're gonna write.
So then note that the board,
the Arduino board,
we'll go into great detail about
the arduino board in the next course.
But the Arduino board has a lot of
other stuff on the board to support
the microcontroller, but
the microcontroller is that
particular chip right there.
So a microcontroller is an integrated
circuit that executes a program.
So this picture of a microcontroller
looks a little bit different than
what we saw before.
That's actually the bare silicon.
So we're not gonna go into depth
about how these things are made.
But these chips, they're made out
of silicon, the semiconductor.
Mostly silicon, ours are silicon.
And so there's a wafer, a small chip.
That's actually what the tip
of a chip looks like.
But that's not what you use,
it's not in a usable form yet.
Before you can actually connect that to
anything, you have to actually wire it up.
You have to package it,
what's called packaging.
But that is a microcontroller,
and it will be packaged and
then it's gonna be integrated
in the middle of the system.
So, the microcontroller,
its job is to execute code and
it's the center of the system.
So, it reads inputs from other components
and it controls other components.
Microcontroller versus microprocessor, so
that's, it's a terminology difference.
Basically, the way I think about it,
I don't know what the formal definition,
but I know how it's commonly thought of.
Microcontroller is basically smaller and
weaker than the microprocessor.
So when you say microprocessor,
you're thinking about what you'd find in
a desktop, laptop,
Intel whatever, AMD whatever.
A big general purpose processor,
general purpose digital signal processor.
That's called a microprocessor.
Basically, they're more heavy-duty.
They can do, they're very fast,
have a lot of memory, and all this.
A microcontroller is more slimmed down,
OK?
More like what you would find in
an embedded system or in an IOT device.
Because remember, these devices, they
have to be designed efficiently, right?
We don't want overkill.
We don't want to over design the system.
We don't wanna buy the highest
end processor, quad core, 4 GHz,
whatever the highest end is at the time.
We don't wanna buy that if
we don't need it, right?
For the task that we're performing,
maybe we're interacting with users, and
these users are only so fast.
So maybe you don't need a fast processor.
So you want the cheapest
processor that will do the job.
So you will go for a microcontroller,
which is slower and
cheaper than whatever the high
end microprocessor is.
So a microcontroller, generally,
think of it as a lower end microprocessor.
Roughly, that's what it is.
So it's slower, typical,
by the way these speed numbers
are completely, they change over time.
But a common ratio, so a microcontroller
might be 16 MHz, that's a slow one.
You can go slower than that,
8 MHz, something like that, 4.
All the way up to,
well I have 500 megahertz.
500 megahertz is sort of a high end,
actually though if you look at say,
Raspberry Pi, that's going 1 GHz I think,
so it's twice that.
So this whole,
it's a shifting scale, this range.
But generally microcontrollers are going
to slower than microprocessors and
going to have less memory,
less of everything roughly.
Yeah, lets make, fewer features, so
there are lots of other features and
we'll talk more detail about
these in the next course.
Specifically we'll talk about Arduinos and
Raspberry Pis and.
The processors, the mircocontrollers,
that are on those devices.
We'll talk in detail about
what features they have, but
they are less than the features that you
find in your standard microprocessor for
a desktop or laptop.
So this picture,
this shows a microprocessor after
the silicone has been packaged so
that you see it is a black rectangle,
a black square in this case, right?
That black is all packaging, and
that packaging is basically
to keep the chip safe.
Also, it cools it, so
it helps propagate heat out
because these things get very hot.
Also, you'll notice around the perimeter
of the chip, of the circuit.
There are these pins, they're called pins.
These little pieces of metal, essentially,
that are used to wire it to the rest
of the components in the system.
So if you look at that picture,
it's a printed circuit board,
a little piece of one.
Actually this is the back side of one,
so we can't see all the parts on it.
But there are lots of other parts
that this microcontroller or
microprocessor is wired to through
the printed circuit board.
We're not gonna actually build printed
circuit boards in this class because
that costs money we're not gonna spend.
We're gonna do this type of thing,
this wiring, manually.
But in a printed circuit board,
there are what are called traces,
little pieces of metal that are drawn
onto the printed circuit board connecting
different components.
So the microcontroller is at the heart
of the system, it's connected to lots of
different components that are in
the embedded system in the IoT device.
And it takes inputs from them, and
it sends control data out to them.
Now, microcontroller needs to be
programmed, it needs to run code.
And that's what it does, it executes code.
So you need to write
the program in some language.
Now there are many languages
that you can write programs in.
We will be using, when it comes to
Arduino we'll eventually be using C/C++.
And then when it comes to
Raspberry Pi we'll be using Python.
But you can use different languages.
But at some point,
you have to write a program in a language.
And then that program has to be
compiled or interpreted, and
we'll talk about that in another lecture.
And the result though,
has to get transmitted on to
the memory of that microcontroller.
So it has to be placed in
the memory of the microcontroller.
So inside that microcontroller,
there is always some flash memory.
Flash memory is just
a non-volatile memory,
a memory that stays after you power off.
So there's some memory and
that memory has to hold the program so
that when it gets power, it starts
executing the program from the start.
And we'll be doing that in the course
of this course and the next course and
all the rest of the courses.
So, the microcontroller
has to be programmed.
So this term programming, in terms of a
microcontroller, means we write the code.
So first you'll write your program on
some host platform, a laptop, desktop.
Which is not the program
that you're gonna execute,
not the chip that you're gonna execute
it on, not that microcontroller.
You typically write the program
on a different host processor
like your laptop, desktop.
So you write the program there,
then you process the program, compile or
interpret the program, or compile it and
interpretation will happen later.
But you compile the program then that
final version of the compiled program has
to get transferred to the microcontroller.
Usually it's done through a piece of
hardware, an external piece of hardware.
So, here we see in the middle,
there's a little board.
That board is connected
by USB to the laptop, and
the microcontroller chip
on the side of the diagram,
that is plugged into the board, to this
slot that fits the microcontroller.
You plug it into the board, then on
the laptop you would type, hit program,
there's a button that hits program.
You program it and it'll write the data
into the memory of that microcontroller.
So that's one way to do it.
Now that is not exactly how we're gonna
do it because we're using Arduino and
Raspberry Pi.
We'll show that later.
Basically, the way an Arduino and
Raspberry Pi work,
is that a lot of this programming
hardware that you see in there,
that is built into the Arduino board and
to the Raspberry Pi board.
So, we don't need a separate device
to program the microcontroller.
That logic is basically
built right into the board.
So we just take our Arduino or
Raspberry Pi and
plug it into USB into the laptop/desktop.
And we can program it directly.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]